Release notes and migration guide ready to merge (#2370)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/migration-from-5x.adoc

:description: Guidance for migrating from TinyMCE 5 to TinyMCE 6
:keywords: migration, considerations, premigration, pre-migration

The process for setting up a basic TinyMCE 6 instance is the same as TinyMCE 5.

Most configuration changes in {productname} 6.0 only affect complex use cases, such as customized user interface components.

This chapter describes the settings that require updating prior to migration; and workaround procedures for deprecated, deleted, and updated features.

It set outs the {productname} 6.0 changes that customers using TinyMCE 5 should be aware of as part of upgrading.

NOTE: For support related to migration, please contact https://support.tiny.cloud/hc/en-us/requests/new[Tiny support].  +
Open Source users: please report issues in the https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce/[TinyMCE GitHub Repository].

== Contents

* xref:apis[APIs]
* xref:commands-and-queries[Commands and queries]
* xref:options[Options]
* xref:text-patterns[Text patterns]
* xref:plugins[Plugins]
* xref:schema[Schema]
* xref:ui-and-ux-elements-and-component[UI and UX elements and components]

> include::6.0-release-notes-core-changes.adoc[]

Reviewer: @ltrouton You might be able to advise on how to do this?

> include::6.0-release-notes-core-changes.adoc[]

Reviewer: Being dealt with elsewhere

[[apis]]
== APIs

=== AddOnManager

Previously, when loading a requested resource, the `AddOnManager` passed a `success` or `failure` callback to report the status of the request. In {productname} 6, `AddOnManager` reports this status by returning a `Promise`, with a value of either `resolve` or `reject`.

=== `closeButton` and `timeout`

Previously, using `closeButton` to disable the close button presented as part of a _Notification_ required a `timeout` value to also be set.

In {productname} 6, `closeButton` shows or hides the close button regardless of a `timeout` value being set or not set.

Equivalently, setting a `timeout` value sets how long the notification presents before automatically closing, regardless of whether a close button is displayed or not.

> NOTE: This does not change the behaviour of existing _Notifications_. An `editor.notificationManager` with both `timeout: 5000` and `closeButton: false` set will still present a notification without a close button that automatically closes after displaying for 5 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: This does not change the behaviour of existing _Notifications_. An `editor.notificationManager` with both `timeout: 5000` and `closeButton: false` set will still present a notification without a close button that automatically close after displaying for 5 seconds.
```

=== `disabled` functions renamed in all {productname} APIs

Previously, multiple {productname} APIs and UI classes used `disable` or `disabled` in their function or property names.

In {productname} 6, these function names have been changed and configuration changes are required.

. `isDisabled()` functions are now `isEnabled()` functions.
+
Configurations that called `isDisabled()` must now call `isEnabled()`. Also, the returned or set value must be interpreted in terms of the new function name. For example, if `isDisabled(false)` was previously called, the equivalent new call is `isEnabled(true)`.
+
. The `enable()` and `disable()` functions are now the single `setEnabled(<state>)` function.
+
Rather than calling the function to set the desired state, call `setEnabled()` with the `true` or `false` value to set the desired state.
+
. The `disable(<name>)` and `enable(<name>)` functions are now the single `setEnabled(<name>, <state>)` function in the Dialog APIs.
+
As well, the `.disabled` property is now the `.enabled` property in all {productname} UI classes.

=== `editor.SetContent`

The `editor.SetContent` event’s `content` property has been deprecated.

> When the `editor.SetContent` event fires, any data in `content` has already been added to the {productname} editor instance and cannot be altered, making `content` essentially moot as an `editor.SetContent` property.

Reviewer: Nope, that's just a rather fun English word!

> When the `editor.SetContent` event fires, any data in `content` has already been added to the {productname} editor instance and cannot be altered, making `content` essentially moot as an `editor.SetContent` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the `editor.SetContent` event fires, any data in `content` has already been added to the {productname} editor instance and cannot be altered, making `content` essentially useless as an `editor.SetContent` property.
```

To alter such data before it is added to the {productname} editor, use the `content` property available in the `BeforeSetContent` event.

> NOTE: Calling the `editor.SetContent` `content` property now returns an empty string.

Reviewer: @lnewson help pls?

> NOTE: Calling the `editor.SetContent` `content` property now returns an empty string.

Reviewer 2: I believe it was trying to say something like this?
```suggestion
NOTE: Calling the `editor.setContent()` will now result in the `SetContent` event's `content` property returning an empty string.
```
However, that's not correct... that only happens on RTC at the moment and it was like that in 5.x as well.

> NOTE: Calling the `editor.SetContent` `content` property now returns an empty string.

Reviewer: I wonder if saying something like the return value should not be used or relied on would be better.

=== `fire` function renamed in all {productname} APIs

The `fire()` function in

* `tinymce.Editor`;
* `tinymce.dom.EventUtils`;
* `tinymce.dom.DOMUtils`;
* `tinymce.util.Observable`; and
* `tinymce.util.EventDispatcher`

has been renamed to `dispatch()`.

`fire` has been aliased to `dispatch` but has also been marked as _deprecated_.

=== `new` keyword no longer used to instantiate plugins

In {productname} 6.0, plugins (and other addons) are no longer initialised with the `new` keyword.

As a consequence, the plugin initalizer value passed to `PluginManager.add` must be a function. It cannot be a class. (The plugin initializer value is the second argument passed to `PluginManager.add()`.)

This change makes it safe to use both older functions and newer arrow functions when instantiating add-ons.

=== PluginManager

Previously, when loading a requested resource, the `PluginManager` passed a `success` or `failure` callback to report the status of the request. In {productname} 6, `PluginManager` reports this status by returning a `Promise`, with a value of either `resolve` or `reject`.

> === redial

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Dialog `redial` API
```
"redial" is very much a TinyMCE concept, and specific to dialogs, so I figured this is more accurate

In {productname} 6.0, the `initialData` type in the dialog `redial` API uses object diffing for the passed spec. As a consequence, the API now only re-renders the portions of a dialog that have changed.

=== ScriptLoader

Previously, when loading a requested resource, `ScriptLoader` passed a `success` or `failure` callback to report the status of the request. In {productname} 6, `ScriptLoader` reports this status by returning a `Promise`, with a value of either `resolve` or `reject`.

=== StyleSheetLoader

Previously, when loading a requested resource, `StyleSheetLoader` passed a `success` or `failure` callback to report the status of the request. In {productname} 6, `StyleSheetLoader` reports this status by returning a `Promise`, with a value of either `resolve` or `reject`.

=== ThemeManager

Previously, when loading a requested resource, the `ThemeManager` passed a `success` or `failure` callback to report the status of the request. In {productname} 6, `ThemeManager` reports this status by returning a `Promise`, with a value of either `resolve` or `reject`.

[[commands-and-queries]]
== Commands and queries

> === `element_format`

Reviewer: This is an option, not a command, I'm pretty sure?

Reviewer 2: Can confirm this is an option.

Author: Moved material from wrong section to right section.

Previously, `element_format` had no explicit default value. It’s implicit value, however, was `xhtml`.

In {productname} 6.0, `element_format` now has an explicit default value: `html`.

This new, and explicit default changes how entered material is serialised. In particular, self-closing elements, such as `<hr>`, `<br>`, and `<img>` no longer present in the `xhtml` standard fashion, as `<hr />`, `<br />`, and `</img />` respectively.

NOTE: If `xhtml` standard representation is required, explicitly setting `element_format` to `xhtml` works as before.

=== `mceInsertTableDialog`

Previously, the `mceInsertTable` command worked in two modes.

If invoked without arguments —

`tinymce.activeEditor.execCommand('mceInsertTable');`

> — the command opened the *Insert Table* dialog box.

Reviewer 3: These are em-dashes, continuing the above sentence, so no they don't need capitals.

If invoked with arguments —

`tinymce.activeEditor.execCommand('mceInsertTable', false, { rows: 2, columns: 2 });`

— the command inserted a table, with the specified properties, directly into the document without opening the *Insert Table* dialog box.

In {productname} 6.0, the `mceInsertTableDialog` command must be used to invoke the *Insert Table* dialog box.

NOTE: The `mceInsertTable` command is still the command for inserting a table with specified properties directly and without asking for user-input. However, using the `mceInsertTable` command without arguments now throws a console error: `model.min.js:4 Uncaught TypeError: Cannot read properties of undefined (reading 'rows')`.

=== `mceAddEditor` and `mceToggleEditor`

Previously, `mceAddEditor` and `mceToggleEditor` used the `editorManager.settings` values to set the `id` and UI and UX options for a new {productname} editor instance.

`editorManager.settings` is not used at all in {productname} 6.

> Instead, the `mceAddEditor` and `mceToggleEditor` commands use `id` and `options` values from an object passed when the command is run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, the `mceAddEditor` and `mceToggleEditor` commands use `id` and `options` values from an object passed in when the command is run.
```

For example —

`tinyMCE.execCommand('mceAddEdit', false, { id: 'ed-1', options: { readonly: false, toolbar: 'bold italic strikethrough' } })`

> — finds a `textarea` with id `ed-1` and turns it into a working {productname} editor that displays the _bold_, _italic_, and _strikethrough_ options in the editor toolbar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
— finds a `textarea` with id `ed-1` and turns it into a working {productname} editor that displays the _bold_, _italic_, and _strikethrough_ buttons in the editor toolbar.
```

+
. A comma-separated string:
+
`plugins: 'advlist,list,image,help,wordcount'`

Previously, two other formats were allowed: comma-separated strings with spaces and arrays of space-separated strings.

Neither of these formats are allowed in {productname} 6.0.

=== Removed plugins

All references to any of these plugins should be removed from plugin configurations.

NOTE: Leaving references to removed plugins in a plugin configuration will cause console errors documenting the plugin failing to load. {productname} 6.0 should, otherwise, work without error. If, however, {productname} 6.0 is ‘installed’ incorrectly — by being unZipped onto an existing {productname} 5.0 instance for example — the old plugin will not be removed, it will load and, since a {productname} 5.x plugin is attempting to work with a {productname} 6.0 instance, error notifications will almost certainly present to the end-user.

See below for specific documentation of potential migration issues, if any, regarding these removed plugins.

Seven `plugins` were removed because their functionality is now a Core part of {productname} 6.0:

. `colorpicker`
. `contextmenu`
. `hr`
. `noneditable`
. `paste`
. `print`

> . `textcolor`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. `textcolor`

The functionality from these plugins can now be used without referencing them in the plugin configuration.
```
Perhaps? When I was reading this the first time, something about this list bothered me, regarding clarity of this list vs. the next. I think this helps?

Three plugins were removed as per the previous https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/release-notes/6.0-upcoming-changes/[announcement]:

. `fullpage`
. `bbcode`
. `legacyoutput`

> These plugins were already empty. As of {productname} 6.0, however, they are gone entirely.

Reviewer: This isn't correct, I think. Colourpicker, contextmenu and... something else were mock plugins, but these still existed in T5. @lnewson please sanity check?

Reviewer 2: Yeah that's not correct. The following were "empty" plugins in 5.x:
- contextmenu
- colorpicker
- textcolor
then the following worked in 5.x, but have now been removed in 6.0:
- bbcode
- fullpage
- legacyoutput
- spellchecker

Reviewer: And then there's also tabfocus, which has been removed in 6 and there is an alternate way (using standard HTML tricks) to get the same behaviour

Reviewer: I noticed this information is all correct in the http://docs-feature-6-doc-1559.staging.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/6.0-release-notes-plugins/ page, if that helps

One plugin was removed as no longer supported:

. `spellchecker`

NOTE: The https://tiny.cloud/tinymce/features/#productivity[Premium plugin], https://tiny.cloud/docs/plugins/premium/tinymcespellchecker/[Spellchecker Pro], which offers equivalent functionality and more, is available.

NOTE: No Premium Plugins released with {productname} 6.0 are backwards compatible with earlier versions of {productname}.

=== ImageTools

As noted in the xref:6.0-release-notes.adoc#removed-or-deprecated-plugins-imagetools[_{productname} 6.0 Release Notes_], the `imagetools` plugin is no longer included as part of the Free editor.

_ImageTools_ is now _EditImage_, a https://tiny.cloud/tinymce/features/#productivity[Premium plugin].

> Also, the `editimage_proxy` option has been renamed to `export_image_proxy_service_url`. The option was renamed to make it easier to configure when using https://tiny.cloud/docs/enterprise/server/[Tiny services].

Reviewer 2: The `export_image_proxy_service_url` option isn't part of the `editimage` plugin, it's part of the `export` plugin. Take a look at `tinymce/6/export/#export_image_proxy_service_url` which may help to explain further (it basically does the same thing as the `editimage_proxy_service_url` option provided by the `editimage` plugin though).

> Also, the `editimage_proxy` option has been renamed to `export_image_proxy_service_url`. The option was renamed to make it easier to configure when using https://tiny.cloud/docs/enterprise/server/[Tiny services].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `imagetools_proxy` option has been renamed to `editimage_proxy`. However, the `editimage_proxy_service_url` option has also been added as a new recommended method for setting up xref:introduction-to-premium-selfhosted-services.adoc[Tiny services].
```

> Also, the `editimage_proxy` option has been renamed to `export_image_proxy_service_url`. The option was renamed to make it easier to configure when using https://tiny.cloud/docs/enterprise/server/[Tiny services].

Reviewer 2: If we accept the above, then we'll need to remove the NOTE below as says something similar:
> NOTE: `editimage_proxy` (the renamed equivalent to the previous `imagetools_proxy`) is still available as an alternative configuration option for setting up image proxy functionality without using Tiny services.

NOTE: No Premium Plugins released with {productname} 6.0 are backwards compatible with earlier versions of {productname}.

[[schema]]
== Schema

=== default schema is HTML 5

* {productname} 6.0 instances now explicitly use HTML 5 as the default schema.
+
The previous default was, for practical purposes, also HTML 5, but no specific schema was set. This change formalises and makes explicit what was, previously, only implicit.
+
There is only one functional change consequent to this explicit setting of a default schema.
+
Previously, if you did not explicitly set the schema to anything, `b` and `i` elements were automaticlly transformed into `strong` and `em` elements respectively.
+
If, however, you explicitly set the schema to `html5`, `b` and `i` elements were preserved.
+
With this release, `html5` is explicitly set as the schema by default, _and_ `b` and `i` elements are automatically transformed into `strong` and `em` elements.
+
That is, the element transformation persists even though the `html5` schema is now explicitly set.

NOTE: `html5-strict` is still an available schema option and is unchanged from {productname} 5.x.

> * The assignment operator character — `:` — has been changed to `~` for the `valid_elements` and `extended_valid_elements` schemata.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* The assignment operator character `:` has been changed to `~` for the `valid_elements` and `extended_valid_elements` schemata.
```

Not sure what the `-` is for

Reviewer 3: look up em dashes :)

As of {productname} 6, the `change` event is not fired unless and until

. focus is switched away from the editor; and
. changes have been made in the editor since focus was switched to it.

NOTE: It is still possible to listen for modification to a {productname} editor instance before focus is changed. To do this, listen for the `dirty` event, rather than the `change` event.

=== `disabled` properties renamed to `.enabled` in {productname} UI classes

Previously, {productname} UI classes provided a `.disabled` property.

In {productname} 6, this property has been renamed to `.enabled`.

Configurations that set `.disabled` must now set `.enabled`.

Also, the Dialog API, which previously offered the `disable(<name>)` and `enable(<name>)` functions, now offers a single `setEnabled(<name>, <state>)` function.

[[ui-elements-and-components-editor-text-entry-height]]

> === Editor text entry height

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Editor height
```
Height is the whole editor, not just the text area.

> In {productname} 5.x, editors without a `height` value specified in the {productname} configuration defaulted to a 200px high text entry area. In {productname} 6.0, editors without a `height` value specified in the {productname} configuration default to a 400px high text entry area.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In {productname} 5.x, editors without a `height` value specified in the {productname} configuration defaulted to a height of 200px. In {productname} 6.0, editors without a `height` value specified in the {productname} configuration default to 400px.
```

As was the case in {productname} 5.x, this new default only applies to editors in `iframe` mode, not `inline` mode.

The new default can be over-ridden by explicitly setting a `height` value in the {productname} configuration. So setting this to `200px` will recreate the previous default presentation.

> Also, setting the element’s CSS `height` to a value larger than 400px will increase the height of the text entry area. Setting the elmement’s CSS `height` to a value less than 400px will *not* reduce the height of the text entry area, however.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Also, setting the element’s CSS `height` to a value larger than 400px will increase the height of the text entry area. Setting the element's CSS `height` to a value less than 400px will *not* reduce the height of the text entry area.
```

> Also, setting the element’s CSS `height` to a value larger than 400px will increase the height of the text entry area. Setting the elmement’s CSS `height` to a value less than 400px will *not* reduce the height of the text entry area, however.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, setting the element’s CSS `height` to a value larger than 400px will increase the editor height. Setting the element’s CSS `height` to a value less than 400px will *not* reduce the height of the editor, however.
```

> NOTE: While {productname} 6.0 honours the `height` setting in {productname} configuration, to prevent text entry areas from disappearing during re-sizing, the `min-height` value (100px) cannot be over-ridden.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: While {productname} 6.0 honours the `height` setting in {productname} configuration, to prevent the editor UI from disappearing during re-sizing, the `min-height` value (100px) cannot be over-ridden.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: While {productname} 6.0 honours the `height` setting in {productname} configuration, to prevent the editor UI from disappearing during re-sizing, the `min-height` value (100px) cannot be over-ridden. This is to prevent an unrecoverable bug that prevented users being able to interact with the editor.
```
Or this, to give a bit more reasoning?

=== formatting user interface name changes

The names of the following user-interface and user experience elements were changed.

[cols="1,1,1"]
|===

> |ui or ux element |old name              | new name

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|UI or UX element |Old name              |New name
```

Author: Already fixed.

> |ui or ux element |old name              | new name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|UI or UX element |Old name              | New name
```
Casing

| Option          | `font_formats`       | `font_family_formats`

| Toolbar item    | `fontselect`         | `fontfamily`

| Menu item       | `fontformats`        | `fontfamily`

| Option          | `fontsize_formats`   | `font_size_formats`

| Toolbar item    | `fontsizeselect`     | `fontsize`

| Menu item       | `fontsizes`          | `fontsize`

| Toolbar item    | `formatselect`       | `blocks`

| Menu item       | `blockformats`       | `blocks`

| Toolbar item    | `styleselect`        | `styles`

| Menu item       | `formats`            | `styles`

| Option          | `lineheight_formats` | `line_height_formats`
|===

NOTE: The behaviour of these elements is unchanged.

> === primary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== `primary`
```

> the `primary` property was a boolean property available as a basic panel component of `dialogs`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The `primary` property was a boolean property available as a basic panel component of `dialogs`.
```

It has been deprecated and replaced by the new `buttonType` property.

[[ui-elements-and-components-tables-positioned-using-margins-not-float]]

> === Tables are now positioned using `margins`, not `float`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== Tables are now positioned using `margin`, not `float`
```

{productname} previously used `float` to position tables to the left or right of the viewport (the working area available to the {productname} editor). This caused multiple layout and UX problems.

For example, consider a {productname} document that included a table that took up less than 100% of the viewport and a paragraph of text below that table. If both the table and the paragraph were selected and their *alignment* was changed to _left_ or _right_, the paragraph of text moved up beside the table.

As another example, consider a {productname} document containing a table that is wider than the viewport. If you selected this table’s contents and set the *alignment* to _right_, the portion of the table that was outside the viewport disappeared to the left, and no scrollbar presented allowing you to bring that portion back into view.

> As of {productname} 6.0, tables are positioned using `margins` rather than `float`. This prevents these layout and UX problems occurring.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As of {productname} 6.0, tables are positioned using `margin` rather than `float`. This prevents these layout and UX problems occurring.
```

Author: All `margins` are now `margin` (there were  three such typos all up) throughout the Release notes/Migration guide docs set.

NOTE: No Premium Plugins released with {productname} 6.0 are backwards compatible with earlier versions of {productname}.

== `tabfocus`

The `tabfocus` plugin has been removed. It is no longer part of {productname} 6.0. And it is not otherwise available.

The `tabfocus_elements` option, which relied on the `tabfocus` plugin, no longer functions.

As per standard web practice, the `tabindex` attribute should be used instead of the `tabfocus` plugin or any of the `tabfocus` plugin’s options.

The tab order of a page’s elements, including {productname}, is configured by setting the https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/tabindex[`tabindex` attribute] on the relevant HTML elements. The browser then natively handles the tab order.

To configure `tabindex` for the {productname} editor, set the attribute on the target element for the editor. For example:

 ```html
 tinymce.init({
   selector: 'textarea'
 });
 ...
 <input tabindex="1">
 <textarea tabindex="2"></textarea>
 <input tabindex="3">
 ```

> In iframe (classic editor) mode, {productname} copies the `tabindex` attribute from the target element to the editor’s iframe, to allow this to work correctly. 

Reviewer 3: These highlighted lines are rendering as a single code block. I'm not sure why. Perhaps there should be a newline before the text continues?

![Screen Shot 2022-04-06 at 5 04 12 pm](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/298292/161915279-4722b060-02d3-4ebf-a0c5-6e51a723c3f9.png)

Reviewer: Mitch found this too - it's using markdown syntax, not asciidoc.

Author: Code block now marked up as per AsciiDoc, not Markdown.

As another example, consider a {productname} document containing a table that is wider than the viewport. If you selected this table’s contents and set the *alignment* to _right_, the portion of the table that was outside the viewport disappeared to the left, and no scrollbar presented allowing you to bring that portion back into view.

As of {productname} 6.0, tables are positioned using `margin` rather than `float`. This prevents these layout and UX problems occurring.

However, when upgrading to {productname} 6.0, there are two things to be aware of:

First, {productname} 6.0 does not alter existing documents. Extant {productname} documents with tables that were aligned to either _left_ or _right_ will still have the `float` property assigned when opened and edited unless and until their *alignment* is altered.

If an extant {productname} document with an aligned table is opened using {productname} 6.0 and the *alignment* of the table is re-set, {productname} 6.0 will remove the `float` property and use the `margin` property to set the *alignment*.

> Second, if the previous behaviour is required, a custom `format` will need to be created. Specifically, the following CSS (the https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce/blob/release/5.10/modules/tinymce/src/core/main/ts/fmt/DefaultFormats.ts#L27-L117[table-specific CSS] from {productname} 5.x’s `DefaultFormats.ts`) must be added to the `format` configuration:

Reviewer 3: Formats and CSS are two different things :)
```suggestion
Second, if the previous behaviour is required, a custom `format` will need to be created. Specifically, the following formats (the https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce/blob/release/5.10/modules/tinymce/src/core/main/ts/fmt/DefaultFormats.ts#L27-L117[table-specific code] from {productname} 5.x’s `DefaultFormats.ts`) must be added to the `format` configuration:
```

Author: Just to clarify:

The appended example code is straight `css`.

*But*, in the context of said `css` being added to a custom `format` configuration, said example should be called `code` and said example should be thought of as a collection of custom _formats_.

Am I reading this right?

Reviewer 3: But that's my point - the embedded example is _not_ css, it's a JS format definition.

=== `disabled` functions renamed in all {productname} APIs

Previously, multiple {productname} APIs and UI classes used `disable` or `disabled` in their function or property names.

In {productname} 6, these function names have been changed and configuration changes are required.

. `isDisabled()` functions are now `isEnabled()` functions.
+
Configurations that called `isDisabled()` must now call `isEnabled()`. Also, the returned or set value must be interpreted in terms of the new function name. For example, if `isDisabled(false)` was previously called, the equivalent new call is `isEnabled(true)`.
+
. The `enable()` and `disable()` functions are now the single `setEnabled(<state>)` function.
+
Rather than calling the function to set the desired state, call `setEnabled()` with the `true` or `false` value to set the desired state.
+
. The `disable(<name>)` and `enable(<name>)` functions are now the single `setEnabled(<name>, <state>)` function in the Dialog APIs.
+
As well, the `.disabled` property is now the `.enabled` property in all {productname} UI classes.

> === `editor.SetContent`

Reviewer 2: `editor.SetContent` doesn't exist, so this should probably be something like this? Though it would also need reordering then.
```suggestion
=== `SetContent` event
```

[[commands-and-queries]]
== Commands and queries

=== `mceInsertTableDialog`

Previously, the `mceInsertTable` command worked in two modes.

If invoked without arguments —

`tinymce.activeEditor.execCommand('mceInsertTable');`

— the command opened the *Insert Table* dialog box.

If invoked with arguments —

`tinymce.activeEditor.execCommand('mceInsertTable', false, { rows: 2, columns: 2 });`

— the command inserted a table, with the specified properties, directly into the document without opening the *Insert Table* dialog box.

In {productname} 6.0, the `mceInsertTableDialog` command must be used to invoke the *Insert Table* dialog box.

NOTE: The `mceInsertTable` command is still the command for inserting a table with specified properties directly and without asking for user-input. However, using the `mceInsertTable` command without arguments now throws a console error: `model.min.js:4 Uncaught TypeError: Cannot read properties of undefined (reading 'rows')`.

=== `mceAddEditor` and `mceToggleEditor`

Previously, `mceAddEditor` and `mceToggleEditor` used the `editorManager.settings` values to set the `id` and UI and UX options for a new {productname} editor instance.

> `editorManager.settings` is not used at all in {productname} 6.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`editorManager.settings` is not used at all in {productname} 6 and has been removed.
```

[[options]]
== Options

=== `element_format`

Previously, `element_format` had no explicit default value. It’s implicit value, however, was `xhtml`.

In {productname} 6.0, `element_format` now has an explicit default value: `html`.

This new, and explicit default changes how entered material is serialised. In particular, self-closing elements, such as `<hr>`, `<br>`, and `<img>` no longer present in the `xhtml` standard fashion, as `<hr />`, `<br />`, and `</img />` respectively.

NOTE: If `xhtml` standard representation is required, explicitly setting `element_format` to `xhtml` works as before.

=== `image_upload_handler`

Previously the `images_upload_handler` option passed `success` or `failure` callbacks to report the status of an image upload. In {productname} 6, `images_upload_handler` reports upload results by returning a `Promise`, with a value of either `resolve` or `reject`.

=== `link_default_protocol`

The `link_default_protocol` option sets the link protocol used by links added or edited using the _link_ dialog.

> It now defaults to `https`. Previously it defaulted to `http`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It now defaults to `'https'`. Previously it defaulted to `'http'`.
```

NOTE: The `link_default_protocol` value is only applied to an edited or inserted link if the protocol is not explicitly specified.

[[text-patterns]]
== Text Patterns

As noted in the xref:6.0-release-notes.adoc#removed-or-deprecated-options-textpattern[_{productname} 6.0 Release Notes_], the `textpattern_patterns` option:

* was renamed to `text_patterns`;
* and had its functionality moved to the Core of {productname} 6.0.

As well, the `textpattern` API has been removed.

Finally, and unlike in previous versions of {productname}, text patterns are now on by default. `text_patterns: false` turns the functionality off.

NOTE: Using `text_patterns: []` to turn `text_patterns` off is not supported. It sets `text_patterns` to an empty array. Having, consequently, no patterns to match, it presents as if `text_patterns` is off. Appearance is not reality, however. Setting `text_patterns: false` is the only supported way of disabling `text_patterns`.

After upgrading:

* rename any options in your {productname} init configuration to match the new name.
* remove `textpattern` from your plugins list.

> === tinymce.activeEditor.options.get

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== `tinymce.activeEditor.options.get`
```

> Previously `tinymce.activeEditor.options.get('plugins')` returned the configured plugins as a string.
> 
> As of {productname} 6, `tinymce.activeEditor.options.get('plugins')` now returns the configured plugins as an array.

Reviewer 2: As noted in the options page, this isn't quite correct. So going to copy Millie's suggestion from there:
```suggestion
Previously, the list of configured plugins could be retrieved by calling `editor.getParam('plugins')` and returned the configured plugins as a string.

As of {productname} 6, the list of configured plugins is retrieved by calling `editor.options.get('plugins')` and now returns the configured plugins as an array.
```

[[plugins]]
== Plugins

=== Plugin loading format change

{productname} 6.0 allows plugin loading in any of three formats:

. An array of strings:
+
`plugins: [ 'advlist', 'list', 'image', 'help', 'wordcount' ]`
+
. A space-separated string:
+
`plugins: 'advlist list image help wordcount'`
+
. A comma-separated string:
+
`plugins: 'advlist,list,image,help,wordcount'`

> Previously, two other formats were allowed: comma-separated strings with spaces and arrays of space-separated strings.

Reviewer 2: Per my previous comment, it's only the latter that was removed and the former wasn't ever explicitly supported (though should still work).
```suggestion
Previously, one other format was allowed: arrays of space-separated strings.
```

> Neither of these formats are allowed in {productname} 6.0.

Reviewer 2: I guess we should just delete this line given the suggestion/note above?

. `fullpage`
. `bbcode`
. `legacyoutput`

These plugins were already empty. As of {productname} 6.0, however, they are gone entirely.

One plugin was removed as no longer supported:

. `spellchecker`

NOTE: The https://tiny.cloud/tinymce/features/#productivity[Premium plugin], https://tiny.cloud/docs/plugins/premium/tinymcespellchecker/[Spellchecker Pro], which offers equivalent functionality and more, is available.

NOTE: No Premium Plugins released with {productname} 6.0 are backwards compatible with earlier versions of {productname}.

=== ImageTools

As noted in the xref:6.0-release-notes.adoc#removed-or-deprecated-plugins-imagetools[_{productname} 6.0 Release Notes_], the `imagetools` plugin is no longer included as part of the Free editor.

_ImageTools_ is now _EditImage_, a https://tiny.cloud/tinymce/features/#productivity[Premium plugin].

Also, the `editimage_proxy` option has been renamed to `export_image_proxy_service_url`. The option was renamed to make it easier to configure when using https://tiny.cloud/docs/enterprise/server/[Tiny services].

> Finally, `editimage` also offers a new export plugin option: `export_image_proxy_service_url`.

Reviewer 2: This isn't correct either as noted above. The `export_image_proxy_service_url` is a new option for the `export` plugin.

NOTE: As of this release, there are no known cases of this change causing media objects to not work as expected. But, also as of this release, not every potential or possible use-case has been tested.

[[plugins-paste]]
=== Paste

As noted in the xref:6.0-release-notes.adoc#removed-or-deprecated-plugins-paste[_{productname} 6.0 Release Notes_], the `paste` plugin’s functionality is no longer provided as a plugin. It is now a core part of {productname} 6.0.

In conjunction with this change, three changes have been made:

. A `paste` default has changed. The `paste_data_images` option now defaults to `true`.
+
When `paste` was a plugin, this option was, by default, set to `false`, which prevented images being pasted from the local machine.
+
. The `mceInsertClipboardContent` argument, `content`, has been renamed. It is now `html`.
+
The new name is a more accurate reflection of what sort of data the argument passes.
+
The `content` argument can no longer be used with `mceInsertClipboardContent`. If `content` is used, no data is passed. `mceInsertClipboardContent` only attempts to pass data if the `html` or `text` property is used.

> +
> NOTE: `PastePreProcess` also takes an argument, `content`. This argument, for this command, has not been changed.

Reviewer 2: As noted in the plugins page this isn't correct and I think the best course of action would be to just remove it as it's always been passed a `content` property.
```suggestion
```

+
The `:` is also used to assign an [xlink:href] rule and this was not possible in these schemata because the colon character was acting as an assignment operator.
+
This change allows both schemata to set attribute values for the `valid_elements` and `extended_valid_elements` options using the `~` character and assign [xlink:href] rules as expected.
+
Existing configurations using either of these schemata must be edited so the `~` character is used for `valid_elements` and `extended_valid_elements` options configurations. The `:` character should no longer be used to set attribute values in these configurations.
+
Also, when assigning `[xlink:href]` rules, the colon character is no longer escaped. `[xlink\\:href]` can now be written plainly, as `[xlink:href]`.

NOTE: Existing configurations that included escaped colons will continue to work as expected. Editing such configs to remove the escape characters will improve readability but is not necessary for functionality.

[[ui-and-ux-elements-and-components]]
== UI and UX elements and components

=== buttonType

> `buttonType` is a new property available as a basic panel component of `dialogs`. It replaces the, now deprecated property, `primary`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`buttonType` is a new property available for button components used in dialogs. It replaces the, now deprecated property, `primary`.
```
